
HELLO!!!!!!!

My name is Michael Jude Bergeman. The 7 remaining files in this folder
are the orchestras and scores for my first two CSound compositions and
three sound files used in one of the pieces. CSound is an exciting new
way to make sounds (orchestra) and use these sounds to create music
(score). The aspect of CSound that I find most fascinating (and
challenging) is its unlimited potential. If you are determined enough
you can create any sound(s) that you can imagine. The key to making
things work are a good imagination and a strong will to translate
these ideas into a language that CSound understands. Work hard and try
not to get discouraged and you will be creating sounds that you have
only dreamed about.


"Face On Mars" is my first CSound piece. It was inspired by the
research of Richard Hoagland. In his book, THE MONUMENTS OF MARS, he
presents conclusive evidence of a former advanced civilization on
Mars. The evidence is based on pictures taken from probes sent up to
Mars in the 1970's. These pictures reveal artificial structures that
communicate redundant mathematical formulas through their alignment on
the Martian surface. These mathmatical formulas point the way to a
"new" untapped energy source available in the Universe.
Unfortunately, there is much debate regarding the accuracy of
Hoagland's findings.  To complicate things further, since the mid 80's
every probe sent to Mars either by Russia (Phobos) or the United
States (Mars Observer) has been lost.  I am frustrated by the fact
that we could send probes out of our solar system and land people on
the moon in the 70's, but can't even get a probe to Mars in the 90's.
New pictures focused on this area of Mars would silence the critics of
Hoagland's theories and reveal a deeper truth about humanity and its
existence. Someone or something does not want this to happen.


"The Beauty of Laughter" is my second CSound composition. It was
written to celebrate the 25th annual Bourges' Electroacoustic Music
Festival in France. I chose this title because I was fortunate enough
to win first prize in the music and humor category of the competition
in 1994 with my piece "The Hershe Tube Rundown".  "The Beauty of
Laughter" was composed by first creating samples of myself laughing
when I was five. These samples were then read into CSound and
manipulated in different ways. I also used a few other instruments to
balance things out.


If you have any questions or would just like to exchange ideas feel
free to contact me.  My address is:
                                           Michael Jude Bergeman
                                           244 Mount Vernon Avenue
                                           Medford,  N.Y.   11763   U.S.A.

